Jehovah is the most generous person in the universe.
He is the giver of every good and every perfect present.
And no doubt you, Gilead students, have thanked Jehovah many times
for the numerous spiritual gifts that you have received over the past five months.
I recall what one of you said in your introduction, Gilead is an undeserved gift.
What I would like to ask you now is, have you experienced over these five months
the gift of God that's mentioned in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verses 12 and 13?
Let's have a look at these verses together. Ecclesiastes 3, 12 and 13.
I have concluded that there is nothing better for them than to rejoice
and to do good during their life, also that everyone should eat and drink
and find enjoyment for all his hard work. It is the gift of God.
So this verse offers a very simple formula for enjoying life if we're blessed with good health.
There is nothing better than to eat and drink and find enjoyment for hard work.
Why is that? Because it is the gift of God.
Now as explained in verse 12, the work which produces feelings of enjoyment and
satisfaction is, you know, to do good. That is, good deeds on behalf of others.
As Jesus said, there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
Proverbs 8 verse 30 also tells us that as a master worker, Jesus rejoiced
or as the Hebrew word for rejoice implies, he had a good time.
Yes, he had a good time working with his father over billions of years, creating the universe.
Now we may be a long way from being blessed as a master worker,
but all can enjoy the satisfaction that comes from doing good work in Jehovah's service.
And don't you find that it's this feeling itself that is a gift from God.
Now if you turn with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verses 18 and 19, expands on this thought.
Ecclesiastes 5 verse 18, this is what I have seen to be good and proper,
that one should eat and drink and find enjoyment for all the hard work at which he
toils under the sun during the few days of life that the true God has given him,
for that is his reward. Also, when the true God gives a man riches and material possessions
along with the ability to enjoy them, he should take his reward and rejoice in his hard work.
This is the gift of God. Now in effect, the Bible writer wisely recommends two things here.
One, work diligently from day to day and two, enjoy what you have right now.
Now when we recognize that our prosperity is a gift from God, we get a lot of personal
enjoyment from what we possess. And you notice that twice in these verses, this gift of God
is described as a reward from Jehovah to us. It's not a beautiful thought that Jehovah chooses to
reward us for our hard work. And I'm sure you agree that Gilead has added an abundance of
spiritual treasures to your possessions. In the coming years, you will find enjoyment again
and again, when you recall an explanation of a verse that you discovered during your personal
study, or that you gleaned from one of your instructors during a class lesson.
Like travelers abroad, you have collected priceless souvenirs. Now if you're still in Ecclesiastes
5, let's have a look at verse 20. Because this verse explains how the gift of God can affect our
outlook on life. It says, for he will hardly notice, or as the footnote says, remember,
he will hardly notice the passing days of his life, because the true God keeps him preoccupied
with the rejoicing of his heart. Time flies is a very common refrain here at Bethel.
And isn't that so true when we enjoy our work? We hardly notice that our days, weeks, years,
even life itself seems to fly by. Therefore the advice is, save the moment. As one famous quote says,
yesterday is the past, tomorrow is the future, but today is a gift, and that is why they call it
the present. And there are benefits to being busy. The gift of God can help us to protect our
mental well-being. When we are preoccupied with interesting work, we don't become
unduly concerned with the brevity of life and its problems and uncertainties.
Rather we get so much enjoyment from doing good, like Jesus having a good time,
that the negative aspects of life tend not to dominate our thinking. You see, we become
joyful at heart. So enjoy that feeling. It is a gift from God. Now the past 20 weeks of schooling
was hard work, wasn't it? Your minds were stretched, yet hasn't time flown by since you introduced
yourselves to us on November the 6th, last year. Well, now it's time to relax,
to eat and drink, in moderation, of course, with your family and friends as you reflect on your
gillied experience. So now is the time to savor the reward from Jehovah. The same wise writer also
suggested a good balance between work and rest when he wrote at Ecclesiastes 4vs6.
Better is a handful of rest than two handfuls of hard work. Now think about that.
A workaholic has no time or energy left to participate in restful activities that are designed to
refresh and rejuvenate us. So we have to be modest about work, especially when we really love
our assignments. The Bible encourages a balanced view. Work hard and enjoy the rewards.
We may thoroughly enjoy our work, but we must remember that work is even more enjoyable
if we take time to relax and reflect with pleasure on that work.
Now since it's likely that many of you will receive new and enjoyable privileges which will
increase your workload, this is good and timely advice from the Scriptures. Is it not?
Now may I invite you to turn to 2 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 6.
Because this verse conveys another positive dimension to the expression,
the gift of God, as you look to future assignments. It says,
for this reason I remind you to stir up like a fire, the gift of God that is in you
through the laying of my hands on you. Now if you to look at the study note, it says this,
the gift that Paul here mentions seems to involve a gift of Holy Spirit,
the imparting to Timothy of some special ability that helped him to fulfill his assignment.
Now of course, Gilead students do not have scholastic abilities conferred upon them by God, do they?
One of you even said in your introduction, we're just ordinary battle lights, living extra-ordinary
lives. Now while that may be true, nevertheless, Gilead training has perhaps helped you to discover
and nurture hidden talents that you never knew you had. True? Your instructors may have noticed
if you didn't. All of us who enjoy service privileges like Timothy need to treasure our gift of
God. Service privileges are expressions of Jehovah's undeserved kindness, not a reward for months of
study. In fact, all of our energies, our abilities, our talents may be viewed as gifts from Jehovah
and they have the purpose of doing good towards other people. Now if that's our outlook and that's
our motive, we will thoroughly enjoy our assignments. You notice too in this verse that Paul reminded
Timothy to stir up like a fire, the gift of God that was in him. No doubt you are fired up
and you are ready to work hard in your assignments. But again, as explained in the study note,
stirring up like a fire implies continuous action, as one scholar suggests, to keep the fire
burning at full flame. So we are encouraged to put our heart and energy into our assignments.
Be fired up, but don't burn out. The fire will continue to burn at full flame if we always remember
to balance work and rest. So yes, the days of our life quickly pass. It's a fact of life now,
but only for now. In the new world, we will enjoy work to the full. The joy of living will get better
and better, especially when we're in perfect health. We will enjoy the pleasure also of consuming
unpolluted food and drink. So enjoy life. Enjoy life with your family and friends. Enjoy all that
you have now. Enjoy your assignments. Put your heart into them. That be balanced.
The simple formula from Ecclesiastes will carry on for billions and billions of years,
even forever. Eat and drink and find enjoyment for all your hard work, because it is the gift of
God.